Every one of us are well and happy. Every day we're still working away. And we feel
as Brother Russell has said, the Gentile times have ended and their kings have had
their day so we know not what awaits us. May you day by day keep close to the
master and his presence will so cheer you that nothing shall be able to
dismay you. Edith Kessler October 11th 1914. At the Keenan's birth in 1914 the
Bible students were not exactly sure what was going to happen but they knew it
would be a pivotal year. For decades they had been seeing that the Gentile
times were closing and that the kings had had their day and they had been
using every means available to focus attention on this monumental event.
Newspapers had carried sermons to millions. Volunteer workers had
distributed millions of free tracks. Coal porters were zealously preaching
pilgrims were busy organizing congregations and a message was expanding
globally. But with the end of the Gentile times approaching so quickly how could
so few Bible students reach an entire world? How could they quicken the pace?
It is unanimously resolved to use moving pictures and teaching Bible truths.
The Lord sanctioned this in his use of word pictures so this should not be
neglected. The Watch Tower July 1st 1913. With that resolution the Bible
students were galvanized to present the photo drama of creation but such a
mammoth undertaking would not come without challenges. Some of the young
brothers learned to operate to projection machine by volunteering at the local
theaters. Being too young I used to sit in the booth with the brother. I can
remember how exciting it was when a film caught fire. How the brother had to act
quickly to put it out and proceed with the performance. Dwight Kenyon.
It was excellent. It was very amazing. You had individual back in those days that
were able to do that without modern instrument and it's very impressive.
That's really what helped my father to come into the truth. They got to the
meeting the next day after it was finished and eventually started studying and
within a few months they were baptized. And my mom told me that she was one of the
usherettes when they put on the photo drama there in their town in Texas. But
they had little pictures postcard size of the pictures that were used the
slides and it was a joy to look at those from time to time when I was a kid.
Nine million people saw the photo drama during his first year. A precious
message they would not soon forget. And there was more to come. From every part
of the field has come the cry saying what more is there that we can do. The
result is a new magazine under the title The Golden Age. Joseph F. Rutherford.
After that announcement brother Rutherford asked of everyone there how many
desire to do this work. Six thousand Bible students stood up as one. An
older next decade. The thousands who would participate in that harvest work would
use many creating methods to reach more people faster. Among them was a book The
Heart of God. People were encouraged to get the harp study course by mail. Then
when I went to the home of our service director his wife and I ran speed
races typing addresses on these cards. We sent out hundreds each week. Trudeau
McKittrick. Soon another technique would come to the fore. The radio station WBBR.
The studio for this new radio broadcasting station was located in the attic. The
microphone that we used at the beginning was taken from an ordinary telephone.
Finally after some weeks of preparations we were ready for the first broadcast.
That occurred on Sunday evening February 24th 1924. The call letters were WBBR.
These call letters are enemies said meant wicked buzzes by radio. It was my
privilege to throw the power switch on for that first broadcast and away we
went hoping for the best Ralph Leffler. The peoples of this earth are now
numbered by the thousands of millions. Many of them. The WBBR in many
respect was a forerunner to the videos because we had Bible questions answered
there. We had public meetings. We had book studies. We had news. The first piece
of equipment that someone got when they came into the truth was a really good
radio. So they could hear WBBR. And that's like I mentioned earlier how my
parents first heard the truth was a radio discourse that a brother gave a
talk on where they did. I had the privilege of times of giving talks on the WBBR
young minister speaks. I gave that once or twice. I was encouraged to take part in
one of their Bible study groups. I was privileged to be on it. It was a program
that was designed as a family Bible study. But even before that, quite a number of
years ago, Fred Franz was on WBBR. Imagine him on the air and youngsters listening
to him. Good evening boys and girls. I know it's drawing close to bedtime.
For many of you. But before you take yourselves to bed, I want to tell you a
story. I had never imagined I'd ever be on a radio program of any kind. And here I
was presenting the truth as a part of a program. So it was a real joy to be on WBBR.
The success of WBBR was met with increased opposition. So other methods were
used to keep spreading the kingdom message. When I was little, we never had an automobile
in our home. But these sound cars, big, beautiful cars, but these big horns on top. And when
they broadcasted first music, everybody came out to listen. And ever weekend, some of
the what we would call today elders would bring the sound car in and station it in our yard.
And from there, they would play the records for the neighborhood. Every weekend, we had
a large group of people listening because of their location. They could stay and listen.
And there was quite a gathering during that time.
Another time I set up and started one of brother, brother for lectures, telling about
the second coming of Christ. A few days afterward, a person told me that his fellow moonshiner
was set up in the woods making a run of moonshine. When all of a sudden here came a voice
from above, he got excited and went to run it. But it could not get away from the sound.
He finally ran home to get his axe and went back up there and chopped up his still. He
said he did not want the Lord to catch him making moonshine at his coming. See him personally.
We would come up on a porch, open our case, set the arm in position on the record and
push the doorbell. When the householder opened the door, we would say, I have an important
message. I would like you to hear. And we would start the record. It is often said
that David is a snare and a racket. And why? When I was pioneering, I used the phonograph
all the time. I liked the phonograph. This is an upright phonograph. We had the type
that opened up and you could balance it on your hip if you were strong enough or you set
it down on the porch and the message would be heard way down the street.
And I always enjoyed hearing when I put the record on. Brother Rutherford saying, religion
is a snare and a racket. And I'd look at the expression on the face of the people, whether
they were happy or not. And I remember they told us now to help the householder concentrate
on the message. It would be good if you would watch the record. So we were told to watch
the record go around and around and around. Of course, we would get a little bit dizzy.
Many times you would knock on the door and set it up. When they call it the door stop setup,
the party didn't even know it was going on. You started playing the record. The only
thing is with a phonograph, you always had to make sure you had the right record on. Sometimes
you would use that phonograph at home and you'd play some hillbilly records on. I took
mom's phonograph and I put on my fat swallower playing a Boogie Wiggy and a St. Louis
Blues member. And so if you got out in service and you happen to have a record that was still
on there. So she goes out in the service with a phonograph. Let's up the lead. I have
an important message. And here's fat swallower playing Boogie Wiggy.
Some witnesses even nicknamed the phonograph Aaron because it did the talking for us. But
that wasn't the only method that was used. We also used a testimony card. This little card
would have a nice little presentation on with scripture too and you'd show that the house
holder. And usually they'd only read a few lines and then they'd hand it back to you so
you'd have to finish the conversation. You'd give it to them to read and then it turned
over. So sometimes we had to start giving it to them on the wrong side so they would turn
it to read it on the right side. So Phania says, hmm, I can just tell him why I'm there. So
which I did. And to me it was a little easier. Some people were a little short on funds and so
we would offer to trade. So many times out in the country they would trade you for maybe a dozen
eggs for three or four booklets or something like that. Or if it was a book you might end up with
a chicken or two. So when you went out and field service in the country you had to be prepared to
pick up many different things. Usually probably bagged the chicken up so he was in a bag back in the
trunk. Got a little warm for the poor thing but they survived it and bring him home and then after
we got the chicken out and let him recover why we'd have a nice chicken dinner. So back in those
days we waited a lot of chicken. In addition, plackers and information marches had also come on the
scene. And brother Rutherford of course was a shorthand expert and whenever you talk to him
he'd always be busy writing. You wouldn't know what he'd be writing about. So he's doing that
this day and so he ripped it off and he gave it to me and said, what do you think of it? And it's
said religions are staring their racket. So I said, my that's pretty strong. As a matter of fact
I said, that's hot. Well, he said, that's what I meant it to be. So now he said, don't you think
it's a good idea? Now we're going to have a big information march two days from now. Couldn't
brother Clay in the printing make up some signs, religions are staring their racket and put them on
poles and we'll have them for the parade. And brother Nora was also in London at that time so he
and I led this parade. This parade was six miles long. A thousand brothers showed up for the parade.
It really was a spectacle. Every second sign would be religion is staring their racket.
And the Bobby's, the police gave us protection as we went down to Gidelli Circus, Oxford Street
right in the center of London. We'd put on the sandwich signs you know that had
some kind of a message and stroggons on it and they'd give us a little sign that we carried you
know on a stick. We had a religion as a snare in the racket. Then you had to put on the other
sign and he said, boy, that's pretty strong. On the other side it's so god and Christ the king.
And we walked very slowly down the street and then back the other way in an area. And we would
approach people with a hand bill and everybody took them and they were looking at the placard.
They would try to not let you think they were looking at you but they were, they were reading
all of the information on the placard. Some people would see something to the effect that you're
doing a good work and that was always a blessing to me. And I always should remember the sister who
looked up at the sign that she was carrying. She looked back up over her head and it said,
serve god and Christ the king and she looked at the one in front of her and the back of that sign
said, religion is a snare in a racket. She said, well, I'm sure glad I don't have to carry that sign.
Well, she was carrying that sign. It was on the back of hers but anyway, she didn't know it so she
was happy. They had adult-sized placards and they had little fellow placards. Well, I was only
about four feet tall but whenever I got there, the little ones were gone. So I only got a big one
that came underneath here and every time I took a step, I kicked it with my feet but it didn't
make any difference. We enjoyed working with placards. Nobody ever trained me in the ministry.
So one day I was at the meeting and the brother passed out the publisher's cards and I said,
where's mine? He said, well, you don't get one. You're not a publisher and I said, well, what's
that? And he said, you got to go preaching. I said, how do you do that? He said, well, come on Saturday
and go over there and get magazines and then they, I went out and they pointed me at a door.
I was scared but I just went anyway. I didn't care. My first experience in field service was
really cute. I knocked on the door and they said, hello, I've got something for you and you can
have it for a penny or you can have it free if you promise to read it. I placed one in every door.
One morning I was taking a group out in the field ministry and a Navy man shows up at the Kingdom Hall.
He's got his uniform on and I didn't know what to do so I took him door to door with me and it
was really very interesting. I thought it was pretty neat me going to door to door with a guy in
the military standing next to me and I'm given my presentations and he's got a Bible and we're
following along with me. Of course later on I learned really it's not the most appropriate thing
to take someone in military uniform out in the ministry with you but at that time I did it.
So my father in December said, well, he's going to go out in service so I got ready and win with him.
Now neither one of us has ever been out in service before. The presiding overseer handed my father
a territory and sent it to us out together. My father said, you take that side and I'll take this
side and that's what it was like and of course I was no more prepared than the man in the moon.
We had pioneers come to our house and they studied with us and she decided to get us started
in the ministry. We would begin with street work but I said no I said I don't want to do that
and she said well that's too bad because I can see the book of life now. There's the names
of your sisters written there, no Lorraine. As I got older there was a pioneer brother
and the congregation that asked if I'd like to go with him to work with him. He carried a rifle
in the back of his car which I thought was kind of unusual. We'd see a rabbit, he'd stop the car
and shoot the rabbit and put it in the car. As it got toward the end of the day
we'd ask him did they know of any place where we could stay overnight because we were out in
the ministry and the people and two different instances I recall they said well you can stay
with us. Everyone said well we don't have enough food for supper and the brother said well I
have a couple of rabbits here if you want to scan them so they did that. I don't think that
this would work. Now the end carrying a rifle in the car certainly is not a device.
It gradually became clear that the individual minister needed further cultivation.
So the brother started perhaps the only school from which not one single solitary person
has ever graduated. The Theocratic ministry school. I recall the time I gave my first six minute talk.
I was not confident in myself so I wrote it down but when I got up to give it
audience fear gripped me and I started and it mattered losing my thoughts. Then I resorted
to reading from the manuscript but my hands were trembling so much that the lines were jumping
up and down. George Ganges. Well I remember when the ministry school started you know and I remember
the brother who gave a first talk and he was so nervous he was kicking the podium all time.
Boom boom boom boom I didn't know he was doing it. And I was sure as my heart could be heard
for the first four rows because it was beating so hard. Back then the sisters didn't give talks.
The brothers gave the talks. The sisters didn't we just laughed and giggled at the brothers.
I know we were all very very excited as sisters when we were invited to be part of the school.
And I remember we were just I was just so excited I jumped up and was clapping the sisters behind
me with crying. I have to give talks now. They didn't like it but I couldn't figure out why they
were crying but we were in West Virginia in a little tiny congregation and guess who was to give
the first talk. It was me of course. So I was scared to death but we did it. I think everybody was
quite nervous and apprehensive in the very beginning. So it's really quite a marvelous training
program. It's besides just not just a public speaking it's it's training in life.
This school would prove invaluable in training God's people to use their gift to speech and
proclaiming the kingdom good news. But at the same time another school was also having a powerful
effect on the ministry. They watched our Bible College of Gillian. That was five and a half
months of some of the happiest in my life. It was seemed like everybody else was a
mental theocratic giant. So we were intimidated. I guess I should speak for myself mainly. I
thought they felt intimidated there and I thought that everybody else probably knew a lot more
than I did. Classes were a delight. Our instructors were brother Schroeder, brother Maxwell Friend,
Jack Redford and Bob Porter. Well I'll tell you a story from brother friend.
After I gave one of my talks in Gillian he said to me sister Brooks I admire your grandchildren.
He said you will be able to tell them such wonderful bedtime stories.
He said brothers Hebrews 412 says God's word is alive. He said don't kill it by the way you read it.
I think one thing was the little white house and the kingdom in our preaching classes with brother
Redford. I'm telling you that little white house had a doorbell and a door and you would get sent
out. My class would decide what objection you were going to get. You come back in I'm telling you
to push that doorbell not knowing what was going to happen behind that door and to see how you
handle it it was real real real formation believe me it prepared us really for the for the ministry
and what was ahead of us. It was wonderful training for the ministry. I loved it.
The next several decades would see more new schools and training programs
but it would also witness monumental conventions and groundbreaking new releases.
More tools to help God's people stay focused on the harvest.
1950 I don't think there's ever been a convention that had that kind of almost electricity in the air.
Everybody is excited they're looking forward to the public talk and the releases everybody wants
to get the new publications. It was eight days that convention not sure that people could
endure that much these days. Well I was so happy that we're having the convention because the
people used to think we were just some little dinky religion you know and I knew when the
Yankee Stadium was going to straighten them out. But when that New World translation in the
Greek scriptures was released it was it really brought the house down. Everybody's expressed
themselves and they clapped and they was cheering and clapping and everybody needed to sit
until after the session before they got their new books. To have the New World translation even
though it was the green Bible was just such a wonderful tool for us in the ministry. It was
exciting then just like it is now every time you get something new and of course you appreciate
it more as you use it. Another thing I loved about those conventions they had a live orchestra
and singing with a live orchestra was already exciting but boy when you would sit in those stadiums
and see all your brothers and sisters it just was so heartwarming and made me feel safe inside
Jehovah's organization. And it was just wonderful every time you went to the convention it was
something thrilling and when it ended we didn't want it to end. This period of expanded activity would
result in publishers, pioneers, Bible studies, return visits, placements and all aspects of the
ministry reaching record eyes. The work was growing in more countries than ever but most importantly
the good news of the kingdom was being preached. But as has often been the case there was much more to come.
Just think of some of the events that you have witnessed in recent decades.
The Pioneer Service School, the ministerial training school, the school for kingdom evangelizers,
special metropolitan public witnessing, a newly designed JW.org, Caleb and they
become Jehovah's friend series. The revised New World Translation and now a new language app to
further train publishers to learn to speak the pure language in multiple languages.
Video on Demand, an entirely new website where people can watch morning worship and other
video publications. And finally a return to Broadcasting, our own TV station, JW Broadcasting,
taking the Bible's message from world headquarters to the farthest reaches of the planet.
Imagine what we will look back on at the 1,000th or 1,000,000th anniversary of kingdom rule.
The past 100 years helps us to appreciate that God's kingdom is real and that Jehovah God has
been using that kingdom to accomplish His will on earth today. But how real is that kingdom to you?
Looking back on our heritage and speaking to those with years of experience will make the kingdom
more real to you and will prepare you to benefit from that kingdom. The governing body
has been anxious to give whatever they can for the building of the brothers and teaching them to
walk the upright world. Oh, I think the revised New World Translation is a marvel.
The word love isn't big enough to say how much I love that Bible. JW Orang is fantastic.
I'm in my iPad all the time. And then using videos, I'm in love with Caleb.
He's keeping abreast with what we need to be efficient ministers and to fulfill our responsibilities.
Everything at the society has done. It's been very good. We're growing faster today
than we ever have. Jehovah really moving the chariot and we're trying to keep up with it.
And I've been very grateful for having Jesus' brothers to take the lead for us.
There is no question about the kingdom being in control. What else can be more real than the kingdom
and the hope at all? I just feel privileged to have some share in inviting others to join us as
servants of Jehovah God. If the sun comes up, we know that the kingdom is going to accomplish,
just what the Bible says it is. This is the reality. God's kingdom. Everything else is an illusion.
The kingdom is in control. We only have good things to look forward to.